README.md, before:

## A website template for Common Lisp

Start building an app quickly.

* Hunchentoot, [Easy-routes](https://lispcookbook.github.io/cl-cookbook/web.html)
* [Djula](https://mmontone.github.io/djula/) templates
* a welcome screen
* a form to search products ("product 1"…)
* a list of products
* run as a script or build a binary.

Uses [Bulma CSS](https://bulma.io) and used [Bulma templates examples](https://bulmatemplates.github.io/bulma-templates/).

See also our [cl-cookieweb](https://github.com/vindarel/cl-cookieweb) project generator.


Welcome screen:

![](welcome.png)

Searching products:

![welcome screen](search.png)


## How to run the app
   
Create a starter config file:

    touch ~/.myproject.lisp

There are two possibilities to run the app from the command line:

    rlwrap sbcl --load run.lisp

In that case, we are dropped into the Lisp REPL, so we can interact
with the running application. It is specially useful to reload
settings (contact information,…).

Or build the binary and run it:

    make build
    ./myproject

Set the port:

    PORT=9999 rlwrap sbcl --load run.lisp

## Develop

Load `myproject.asd` (`C-c C-k` in Slime), `(ql:quickload :myproject)` and then `(start)`.


TODO:

* [X] load static files => use the regular `(hunchentoot:create-folder-dispatcher-and-handler #p"/path/to/static/")`.
* anything more useful for a web app

See also:

* the [real world app](https://github.com/vindarel/abstock) from where I extracted this template (it reads a DB, it has a shopping basket and a validation form that sends an email to the owner).
* my preliminary notes on live-reloading a lisp web app: https://github.com/vindarel/lisp-web-live-reload-example
* how to connect to a remote running image with a Swank server: https://lispcookbook.github.io/cl-cookbook/debugging.html#remote-debugging
* https://lispcookbook.github.io/cl-cookbook/web.html
* https://github.com/CodyReichert/awesome-cl#web-frameworks


## Licence

WTFPL

Commit message:

check if the config file exists before load-ing it

README.md, after:

## A website template for Common Lisp

Start building an app quickly.

* Hunchentoot, [Easy-routes](https://lispcookbook.github.io/cl-cookbook/web.html)
* [Djula](https://mmontone.github.io/djula/) templates
* a welcome screen
* a form to search products ("product 1"…)
* a list of products
* run as a script or build a binary.

Uses [Bulma CSS](https://bulma.io) and used [Bulma templates examples](https://bulmatemplates.github.io/bulma-templates/).

See also our [cl-cookieweb](https://github.com/vindarel/cl-cookieweb) project generator.


Welcome screen:

![](welcome.png)

Searching products:

![welcome screen](search.png)


## How to run the app

There are two possibilities to run the app from the command line:

    rlwrap sbcl --load run.lisp

In that case, we are dropped into the Lisp REPL, so we can interact
with the running application. It is specially useful to reload
settings (contact information,…).

Or build the binary and run it:

    make build
    ./myproject

Set the port:

    PORT=9999 rlwrap sbcl --load run.lisp

### Config file

You can use a starter configuration file:

    touch ~/.myproject.lisp

In there, you can do anything in Lisp. You probably want to write things after `(in-package myproject)`, but that is not mandatory. For example, you can overwrite the `get-products` function.

The file will be `load`'ed at startup, in the context of the `myproject` package.


## Develop

Load `myproject.asd` (`C-c C-k` in Slime), `(ql:quickload :myproject)` and then `(start)`.


TODO:

* [X] load static files => use the regular `(hunchentoot:create-folder-dispatcher-and-handler #p"/path/to/static/")`.
* anything more useful for a web app

See also:

* the [real world app](https://github.com/vindarel/abstock) from where I extracted this template (it reads a DB, it has a shopping basket and a validation form that sends an email to the owner).
* my preliminary notes on live-reloading a lisp web app: https://github.com/vindarel/lisp-web-live-reload-example
* how to connect to a remote running image with a Swank server: https://lispcookbook.github.io/cl-cookbook/debugging.html#remote-debugging
* https://lispcookbook.github.io/cl-cookbook/web.html
* https://github.com/CodyReichert/awesome-cl#web-frameworks


## Licence

WTFPL
